
Artificial intelligence (AI) based on deep learning (DL) has sparked tremendous global interest in recent years. DL has been widely adopted in image recognition, speech recognition and natural language processing, but is only beginning to impact on healthcare. In ophthalmology, DL has been applied to fundus photographs, optical coherence tomography and visual fields, achieving robust classification performance in the detection of diabetic retinopathy and retinopathy of prematurity, the glaucoma-like disc, macular oedema and age-related macular degeneration. DL in ocular imaging may be used in conjunction with telemedicine as a possible solution to screen, diagnose and monitor major eye diseases for patients in primary care and community settings. Nonetheless, there are also potential challenges with DL application in ophthalmology, including clinical and technical challenges, explainability of the algorithm results, medicolegal issues, and physician and patient acceptance of the AI 'black-box' algorithms. DL could potentially revolutionise how ophthalmology is practised in the future. This review provides a summary of the state-of-the-art DL systems described for ophthalmic applications, potential challenges in clinical deployment and the path forward.
InTroduCTIonArtificial intelligence (AI) is the fourth industrial revolution in mankind's history. 1 Deep learning (DL) is a class of state-of-the-art machine learning techniques that has sparked tremendous global interest in the last few years. 2 DL uses representation-learning methods with multiple levels of abstraction to process input data without the need for manual feature engineering, automatically recognising the intricate structures in high-dimensional data through projection onto a lower dimensional manifold. 2 Compared with conventional techniques, DL has been shown to achieve significantly higher accuracies in many domains, including natural language processing, computer vision 3-5 and voice recognition. 6 In medicine and healthcare, DL has been primarily applied to medical imaging analysis, in which DL systems have shown robust diagnostic performance in detecting various medical conditions, including tuberculosis from chest X-rays, 7 8 malignant melanoma on skin photographs 9 and lymph node metastases secondary to breast cancer from tissue sections. 10 DL has similarly been applied to
			