
Verifiability is a core content policy of Wikipedia: claims need to be backed by citations. Maintaining and improving the quality of Wikipedia references is an important challenge and there is a pressing need for better tools to assist humans in this effort. We show that the process of improving references can be tackled with the help of artificial intelligence (AI) powered by an information retrieval system and a language model. This neural-network-based system, which we call SIDE, can identify Wikipedia citations that are unlikely to support their claims, and subsequently recommend better ones from the web. We train this model on existing Wikipedia references, therefore learning from the contributions and combined wisdom of thousands of Wikipedia editors. Using crowdsourcing, we observe that for the top 10% most likely citations to be tagged as unverifiable by our system, humans prefer our system's suggested alternatives compared with the originally cited reference 70% of the time.To validate the applicability of our system, we built a demo to engage with the English-speaking Wikipedia community and find that SIDE's first citation recommendation is preferred twice as often as the existing Wikipedia citation for the same top 10% most likely unverifiable claims according to SIDE. Our results indicate that an AI-based system could be used, in tandem with humans, to improve the verifiability of Wikipedia.Wikipedia is one of the most visited websites 1 , with half a trillion page views per year 2 , and constitutes one of the most important knowledge sources today. As such, it is critical that any knowledge on Wikipedia is verifiable: Wikipedia users should be able to look up and confirm claims made on Wikipedia using reliable external sources 3 . To facilitate this, Wikipedia articles provide in-line citations that point to background material supporting the claim. Readers who challenge Wikipedia claims can follow these pointers and verify the information themselves 4-6 . However, in practice, this process can fail: a citation might not entail the challenged claim or its source might be questionable. Such claims may still be true, but a careful reader cannot easily verify them with the information in the cited source. Under the assumption that a Wikipedia claim is true, its verification is a two-stage process: (1) check the consistency of the existing source and (2) if that fails, search for new evidence.
			